---
layout: post
title:  "Continued Progress"
date:   2021-04-14 11:57:59 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
At this point in the project for the semester I continue to focus on a single of the sources I found back in January. It has the sort of great title one expects to find regarding items published in the late 19th century "Condensed history of the great yellow fever epidemic of 1878; personal sketches and incidents, full particulars of the Father Mathew Camp, list of cities and towns visited by the scourge, and names of the victims of the fever in Memphis." I have done so for mutliple utilitarian reasons: the source is of workable size, allowing me to see what I am doing bettering my chances of noticing if I have made a million mistakes or not, the source is just dirty enough to necessiate cleaning, the source is also composed of multiple parts each requiring some different work. It is this aspect that also has me narrowing in on it as I am using the data I am discovering immediately in the two papers I must write for the semester. I am also just plain interested in it and therefore encouraged to keep bumbling along at my own slow pace. Motivation helps afterall!  

The first part I cleaned from the condensed history was the list of cities and towns. This data can be seen in the post entitled "Geographic Reports". I have also pasted it into Voyant and the results can be seen [here](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=e965de89827c9efc92b937597ebb709a) While not earthshattering in the results, one can quickly see confirmation of what it expected based on representations, the outbreak began in August (smaller text) raged in September and October (larger font) only to dissipate in November (smaller text again.)


I have since cleaned the "names of the victims" portion and inserted it in a table below. I also inserted this data into voyant to see what it [revealed](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=c0df9638f43a442e12dc8303914d2897) and am not sure at this point in my research what to make of it. I found both columns less useful and tried again with just the last names. Maybe next year when I start to look deeper into what stories can be uncovered there will be something of worth to follow. I am especially interested in the titles "Rev" or "Sister" as I am seeking to focus on the story of religious responses. Only have three years to figure that part out! 

